Updating Contributing to OptaPlanner section in README (#1943)
kiegroup/optaplanner: README.adoc

image:https://img.shields.io/github/license/kiegroup/optaplanner?style=for-the-badge&logo=apache["Livense", link="https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/JVM-11--17-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge["JVM support", link="https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner/actions/workflows/pull_request.yml"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/Maven-3.x-blue?style=for-the-badge["Maven",link="https://maven.apache.org/install.html"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/kiegroup/optaplanner?style=for-the-badge["Code size", link="https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner/actions/workflows/pull_request.yml"]

{sonarBadge}&style=for-the-badge&metric=reliability_rating["Reliability Rating", {sonarLink}]
{sonarBadge}&metric=security_rating["Security Rating", {sonarLink}]
{sonarBadge}&metric=sqale_rating["Maintainability Rating", {sonarLink}]
{sonarBadge}&metric=coverage["Coverage", {sonarLink}]

A fast, easy-to-use, open source AI constraint solver for software developers

## Looking for Quickstarts?

> OptaPlanner's quickstarts have moved to https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner-quickstarts[optaplanner-quickstarts repository].

Reviewer: It's been a while since we moved them; it's time to change the wording:
```suggestion
OptaPlanner's quickstarts are located in the https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner-quickstarts[optaplanner-quickstarts repository].
```

image:https://img.shields.io/badge/Maven-3.x-blue?style=for-the-badge["Maven",link="https://maven.apache.org/install.html"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/kiegroup/optaplanner?style=for-the-badge["Code size", link="https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner/actions/workflows/pull_request.yml"]

{sonarBadge}&style=for-the-badge&metric=reliability_rating["Reliability Rating", {sonarLink}]
{sonarBadge}&metric=security_rating["Security Rating", {sonarLink}]
{sonarBadge}&metric=sqale_rating["Maintainability Rating", {sonarLink}]
{sonarBadge}&metric=coverage["Coverage", {sonarLink}]

A fast, easy-to-use, open source AI constraint solver for software developers

== Looking for Quickstarts?

OptaPlanner's quickstarts are located in the https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner-quickstarts[optaplanner-quickstarts repository].

== Quick development start

To build and run from source:

----
$ mvn clean install -Dquickly
$ cd optaplanner-examples
$ mvn exec:java
----

To develop with IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse or VSCode, open the root `pom.xml` as a new project
and configure a _Run/Debug configuration_ like this:
BENCHMARK_JDK

> BENCHMARK_JDK

Reviewer 2: Not sure where this is coming from but it breaks the following list formatting.

* Type: Application
* Main class: `org.optaplanner.examples.app.OptaPlannerExamplesApp`
* VM options: `-Xmx2G -server` (memory only needed when using the big datasets in the examples)
* Program arguments: (none)
* Working directory: `$MODULE_DIR$` (must resolve to optaplanner-examples directory)
* Use classpath of module: `optaplanner-examples`

== Contributing to OptaPlanner

This is an open source project, and you are more than welcome to contribute :heart:!

* If you're just starting out with OptaPlanner and want to contribute,
take a look at our https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?jql=project%20%3D%20PLANNER%20AND%20status%20in%20(Open%2C%20Reopened)%20AND%20labels%20%3D%20starter%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC[starter issues].
They're specifically chosen to be easier for first time contributors.

* If you want to contribute or start an opinionated discussion, join our https://groups.google.com/g/optaplanner-dev[discussion] or send an e-mail directly to optaplanner-dev@googlegroups.com.

* If you want to submit an issue, check out the https://issues.redhat.com/projects/PLANNER/issues[OptaPlanner Jira project].

=== Time to make a change?

> Every change must be submitted through a GitHub pull request (PR). OptaPlanner uses continuous integration (CI). The OptaPlanner CI  runs checks against your branch after you submit the PR to ensure that your PR doesn't introduce errors. If the CI identifies a potential problem, our friendly PR maintainers will help you resolve it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every change must be submitted through a GitHub pull request (PR). OptaPlanner uses continuous integration (CI). The OptaPlanner CI runs checks against your branch after you submit the PR to ensure that your PR doesn't introduce errors. If the CI identifies a potential problem, our friendly PR maintainers will help you resolve it.
```

== Contributing to OptaPlanner

This is an open source project, and you are more than welcome to contribute :heart:!

=== Getting into

If you're just starting out with OptaPlanner and want to contribute,
take a look at our https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?jql=project%20%3D%20PLANNER%20AND%20status%20in%20(Open%2C%20Reopened)%20AND%20labels%20%3D%20starter%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC[starter issues].
They're specifically chosen to be easier for first time contributors.

If you want to contribute or start an opinionated discussion, join our https://groups.google.com/g/optaplanner-dev[discussion] or send an e-mail directly to optaplanner-dev@googlegroups.com.

If you want to submit an issue, please check out the https://issues.redhat.com/projects/PLANNER/issues[OptaPlanner Jira project].

=== Time to make a change?

Every change must go through *Pull Request*. Please follow the <<Contributing>> section for more details. OptaPlanner has a CI in place that runs checks against your branch after you submit the PR. Don't worry if something gets wrong or breaks other parts of functionality; our friendly PR maintainers will help you with that.

=== Contributing

> 1. Fork it (https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner)

Author: Will not change that

> 2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/fooFeature`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Create your feature branch. The following example shows how to create and check out the `feature/fooFeature' branch:
 `git checkout -b feature/fooFeature'
```

> 3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some fooFeature'`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Commit your changes and add a comment about the changes:
 `git commit -am 'Added a fooFeature'`
```

> 4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/fooFeature`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Push to the branch to GitHub:
 `git push origin feature/fooFeature`
```

> 5. Create a new Pull Request

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Create a new pull request.
```

Reviewer 2: @dupliaka +1 to this.

* No need to capitalize pull request. It's part of the GitHub jargon (branch, fork, workflow, ...) and not a proper name (like GitHub, OptaPlanner, Maven, etc.).
* This list items are full sentences so they should end with a period.

Author: Fixed

=== Code standards

> Your code is automatically formatted according to the _Import and Code Style_ conventions during every Maven build. CI checks enforces those conventions too, so be sure to build your project with maven before PRing your changes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your code is automatically formatted according to the _Import and Code Style_ conventions during every Maven build. CI checks enforce those conventions too, so be sure to build your project with maven before creating your PR:
```

----
mvn clean install
----
Setup code style check by https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner/blob/main/build/optaplanner-ide-config/ide-configuration.adoc[IDE Setup Instructions]

> === Build

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Building your OptaPlanner project

Use one of the following ways to build your OptaPlanner project:
```

- :rocket: *build-fast*: `mvn clean install -Dquickly` skips any checks and code analysis (~1 min)

- :hammer: *build-normally*: `mvn clean install` runs tests, checks code style, skips documentation  (~17 min)

- :receipt: *build-doc*: `mvn clean install` at `optaplanner/optaplanner-docs` creates asciidoctor documentation `target/optaplanner-docs-*/html_single/index.html` (~2 min)

- :mechanical_arm: *build-all*: `mvn clean install -Dfull` runs all checks + creates documentation and distribution files (~20 min)

> == OptaPlanner CI Status

Reviewer 3: Note that I have corrected all headings to sentence case. You can ignore this if the rest of the doc uses title case.

> You can check OptaPlanner repositories CI status from https://kiegroup.github.io/optaplanner/[Chain Status webpage].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can check the CI status of the OptaPlanner repositories from the https://kiegroup.github.io/optaplanner/[Chain Status webpage].
```

=== Time to make a change?

Every change must go through *Pull Request*. Please follow the <<Contributing>> section for more details. OptaPlanner has a CI in place that runs checks against your branch after you submit the PR. Don't worry if something gets wrong or breaks other parts of functionality; our friendly PR maintainers will help you with that.

=== Contributing

1. Fork it (https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

=== Code standards

Your code is automatically formatted according to the _Import and Code Style_ conventions during every Maven build. CI checks enforce those conventions too, so be sure to build your project with maven before creating your PR:
----
mvn clean install
----
For information about how to setup code style checks, see https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner/blob/main/build/optaplanner-ide-config/ide-configuration.adoc[IDE Setup Instructions].

=== Building your OptaPlanner project

Use one of the following ways to build your OptaPlanner project:

> - :rocket: *build-fast*: `mvn clean install -Dquickly` skips any checks and code analysis (~1 min)

Reviewer 2: The list is broken (see https://github.com/dupliaka/optaplanner/blob/PLANNER-2684/README.adoc#building-your-optaplanner-project). Probably a blank line is needed before the first list item.

Author: Thanks for noticing! Fixed that, rebased and ready to merge

* If you want to submit an issue, check out the https://issues.redhat.com/projects/PLANNER/issues[OptaPlanner Jira project].

=== Time to make a change?

Every change must go through *Pull Request*. Please follow the <<Contributing>> section for more details. OptaPlanner has a CI in place that runs checks against your branch after you submit the PR. Don't worry if something gets wrong or breaks other parts of functionality; our friendly PR maintainers will help you with that.

=== Contributing

1. Fork it (https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

=== Code standards

Your code is automatically formatted according to the _Import and Code Style_ conventions during every Maven build. CI checks enforce those conventions too, so be sure to build your project with maven before creating your PR:
----
mvn clean install
----

> For information about how to setup code style checks, see https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner/blob/main/build/optaplanner-ide-config/ide-configuration.adoc[IDE Setup Instructions].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information about how to set up code style checks, see https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner/blob/main/build/optaplanner-ide-config/ide-configuration.adoc[IDE Setup Instructions].
```

* Working directory: `$MODULE_DIR$` (must resolve to optaplanner-examples directory)
* Use classpath of module: `optaplanner-examples`

### Starter issues

If you're just starting out with OptaPlanner and want to contribute,
take a look at our https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?jql=project%20%3D%20PLANNER%20AND%20status%20in%20(Open%2C%20Reopened)%20AND%20labels%20%3D%20starter%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC[starter issues].
They're specifically chosen to be easier for first time contributors.

## Contributing to OptaPlanner

> This is an open source project, and you are more than welcomed to contribute!:heart:

Reviewer: I think that "welcome" is an adjective in this sentence:

```suggestion
This is an open-source project, and you are more than welcome to contribute!:heart:
```

Reviewer 4: Can we add a space before the :heart: ?

Author: Sure, I was planning to invite @emmurphy1 as well

### Getting into

> Working on a contribution or want to start an opinionated discussion? +
> Join our https://groups.google.com/g/optaplanner-dev[discussion] or mail directly through optaplanner-dev@googlegroups.com

Reviewer: This may sound slightly better:
```suggestion
If you want to contribute or start an opinionated discussion, join our https://groups.google.com/g/optaplanner-dev[discussion] or send an e-mail directly to optaplanner-dev@googlegroups.com.
```

> Want to submit an issue, then check out our bord on https://issues.redhat.com/projects/PLANNER/issues[Jira]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to submit an issue, please check out the https://issues.redhat.com/projects/PLANNER/issues[OptaPlanner Jira project].
```

### Time to make a change?

> Every change must go through *Pull Request*. Please follow the <<Contributing>> so the feature/bugfix and it's tests could be reviewed. OptaPlanner has CLI that run checks against your branch after PR is suggested. So don't worry if something gets wrong or breaks other parts of functionality our friendly PR maintainers will help you with that.

Reviewer: Fixes some typos and reformulates the text a bit:
```suggestion
Every change must go through *Pull Request*. Please follow the <<Contributing>> section for more details. OptaPlanner has a CI in place that runs checks against your branch after you submit the PR. Don't worry if something gets wrong or breaks other parts of functionality; our friendly PR maintainers will help you with that.
```

> ### Contributing

Reviewer 4: Code style of adoc files: Use = instead of # for titles
Asciidoctor supports # too, for MarkDown compatibility, but we always use =

```suggestion
=== Contributing
```

Author: FIxed

1. Fork it (https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/fooBar`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some fooBar'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/fooBar`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

### Documentation
- `optaplanner-docs` contains AsciiDoc documentation of OptaPlanner
To generate the html and pdf output run maven with `-Dfull`:
----
$ cd kiegroup
$ cd optaplanner/optaplanner-docs
$ mvn clean install -Dfull
...
$ firefox target/optaplanner-docs-*/html_single/index.html
----

### Code standards

> Enforcer fails the build if it does not satisfy _Import and Code Style_ conventions. Follow https://github.com/kiegroup/optaplanner/blob/main/build/optaplanner-ide-config/ide-configuration.adoc[IDE Setup Instructions] to fix style problems automatically.

Reviewer 4: The build doesn't fail if the code style is incorrect. Instead, it is automatically reformatted on every build.
Now, reading further, this indeed explained.

But I am wondering if we can TLDR this more, something like:

=== Code standards
Your code is automatically formatted according to the _Import and Code Style_ conventions during every Maven build. CI checks enforces those conventions too, so be sure to build your project with maven before PRing your changes:

... (quickly build command line instruction) ...

... (IDE configuration) ...

Author: :+1:

### Build

> - :rocket: *build-fast*: `mvn clean install -Dquickly` skips any tests and code analysis (~10 min)

Reviewer: I just tried locally and it took 01:10 min. Let's put there 2 minutes.
```suggestion
- :rocket: *build-fast*: `mvn clean install -Dquickly` skips any tests and code analysis (~2 min)
```

Author: Have you cleaned up your .m2?

Reviewer: Good point, that might change the build time dramatically.

Author: Yup you are right, the average is average)

take a look at our https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?jql=project%20%3D%20PLANNER%20AND%20status%20in%20(Open%2C%20Reopened)%20AND%20labels%20%3D%20starter%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC[starter issues].
They're specifically chosen to be easier for first time contributors.

== Contributing to OptaPlanner

Seeking how to contribute for a mutual benefit? That's Great! We have prepared guidelines to save some time and make it easier for you to act in the best interests of everyone.

=== Workflow

- https://github.com/kiegroup/droolsjbpm-build-bootstrap/blob/main/README.md#team-workflows[new-issue]: Create https://issues.redhat.com/projects/PLANNER/issues[Jira] ticket

> - https://github.com/kiegroup/droolsjbpm-build-bootstrap/blob/main/README.md#source-control-with-git[contribute-source]: Use _GitHub Pull Request_, from your own *fork*

Author: Inlined

> - https://github.com/kiegroup/droolsjbpm-build-bootstrap/tree/main/.ci[pass-ci-checks]: CI automatically will test build on PR submission. All PR checks should end up with *success*

Reviewer: I don't think that the link for the CI source code is necessary; hardly any external contributor is interested in that. Let's keep the amount of information in this readme minimal.

> - pass-quality-gate: Test coverage is provided by sonarcloud on PR and should not be less than *80%* for a new code

Reviewer: Let's not mention such details; in the end, it's the reviewer's responsibility to make sure the PR adheres to our standards.

Author: Removed

take a look at our https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?jql=project%20%3D%20PLANNER%20AND%20status%20in%20(Open%2C%20Reopened)%20AND%20labels%20%3D%20starter%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC[starter issues].
They're specifically chosen to be easier for first time contributors.

== Contributing to OptaPlanner

Seeking how to contribute for a mutual benefit? That's Great! We have prepared guidelines to save some time and make it easier for you to act in the best interests of everyone.

=== Workflow

- https://github.com/kiegroup/droolsjbpm-build-bootstrap/blob/main/README.md#team-workflows[new-issue]: Create a ticket https://issues.redhat.com/projects/PLANNER/issues[Jira]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/droolsjbpm-build-bootstrap/blob/main/README.md#source-control-with-git[contribute-source]: Use GitHub Pull Requests, from your own fork.

> - get-feedback: Assign at least one OptaPlanner committer for code review.

Reviewer 2: External contributors do not have the permissions to set reviewers (if we're talking about PRs). Neither are they expected to know who the committers are. Opening a PR is enough. We'll notice.

Author: Thanks for that notice
